yo Eliot so we got a question for my
buddy death death wish death wishes song
or some shit like that anyway he's got
some elbow pain that's preventing him
from developing his tricep strength and
his uh his benchpress it's pressing
ability he says that flexing is fine
right flexing is flexing is fine pay
very close attention what I'm doing
because it's gonna be critical flexing
is fine extension causes him pain and I
know that because he says when he does
tricep press downs skull crushers are
bench pressing which is all extension
causes him pain he wants to know what
what's going on it's destroying his
gains and he wants to be able to fix it
muscular imbalance I'm going to describe
exactly what and how and a very
interesting one that many of you have
probably not thought of but the hands
can become just as muscularly imbalanced
as the shoulders as the hips and in fact
they can't muscular imbalances in the
hand can array D eight into the core of
the body it radiation radiation right
basically means it watch this if you
squeeze this hand tight squeeze your
hand as tight as you can you're going to
feel the muscles up near the shoulder RB
activating this tighter you squeeze your
hand the more than what other muscles
are being activated you can't squeeze
your hand the sight as you can without
affecting all the other muscles and the
same thing holds true for stretching the
hand if there are muscular imbalances
that don't allow a full extension at all
fingers right you can rest assure but
that muscular imbalance is working its
way up through your forearms into your
shoulder elbows and into your shoulders
perhaps up into your neck it's fucked up
and crazy as that sounds right no Elia
nose you have if you have muscular
imbalances down at your hands and
especially if your do you know you do a
lot of push-ups you do anything where
there's a there's a reaction force being
pushed through the hands you can end up
with TMJ your jaw could be all screwed
up because your hands are messed up
someone who has this flexion extension
imbalance similar to those people who
have carpal tunnel right because this is
all they're flexing not extending are
gonna have pain all up through this shit
and you're a young dude you got a
picture here you look like you're 15
years old or some shit you're just
getting started so if you don't work on
this in balance you're going to end up
with like arthritis or some shit when
you're my age what you need to do two
things the very first one is to stretch
the hands I've done videos on this
before where you take your palm turn
your elbow up very important that your
elbows up press it against the wall and
turn away boom right you want to get
this as flat as you can I bet as you do
it right now it's just your fingers
gonna be able to touch it you might look
like this right
but over time what you want is boom you
wanna be able I'm not even that great
like I should stretch it more but yeah
I'm okay I don't have any pain
associated with it
open up that hand flat against that wall
boom and turn around that's going to
stretch all the muscles in your hands
you guys that have problems with the
front squat and the clean hold and the
power clean then stretch all those
muscles in your hand up to your forearm
elbow and bicep your biceps probably
over develop the relation to your tricep
in fact you allude to that stretch all
that shit out now the next thing I would
invite you to do is to begin with
push-ups to in order to start developing
the try you're pushing a pattern right
not tricep extensions not skull crushers
not even benchpress or clothes get
better
push-ups because what push-ups are gonna
force you to do with your hands on the
ground spread your fingers out evenly
and then make sure that the force that's
that you're applying to the ground is
spread throughout your entire hand like
every single finger is getting equal
district distribution of course back
down into the palms of your hands right
just do that I guarantee you only tough
fucking tough guys go into a push-up
position and spread your fingers out and
feel how the dishes you distribution of
force being placed throughout your hand
is in balance a lot of you guys will
look like this right you can be doing
push-ups and your hands are kind of like
this or you got more pressure going
through your pinkies and through the
middle finger and so on and so forth
right spread that shit out now be very
mindful of how you go into your pushup
because if you move out of a natural
pattern right the natural pattern for
your structure your body structure your
hands will start to it will be very
subtle but the pressure is going to be
alleviated or increased in different
fingers I want you to maintain all of it
throughout everything move your elbows
and shoulders and body so that the hands
can remain flat and then push right
through if you can do 40 50 pushups I
guarantee you'll do like 14 or 15 the
way I'm describing it to you right now
so you're stretching by doing the hand
thing which are strengthening now but
you're strengthening in a functional
manner your build your rebuilding the
the pattern do this for several weeks
and then go back and you'll find that
you can you can isolate the muscle the
tricep muscle which you know you
probably shouldn't do too much of you
know try to stick with your patterns
compound movements and and you won't
have that pain so I hope that helps you
do you know a lot of you guys like to
write uh in your in the comment area go
see a doctor of fucking
asking Elliott well you know those
fucking see a doctor give you a quote a
soul shot and then three years you get
surgery or you could work on natural
simple shit like stretching and
strengthening that doesn't require a
medical degree to figure figure out that
sound I read this shit in a book I made
this shit up this is purely bro science
free orally bro science right go see how
crazy my fucking bro size is and tell
Munna elbows bent better peace yo
Elliott